High in the last lecture we have been discussing hierarchical clustering.
And in this video I would like to show you a concrete example of how to use it.
For example we have a one dimensional PI array.
Basically it's going to represent points in the two dimensional plane.
So this is the X scored and that this is the y coordinate.
This is the X school.
And the why call that again.
So we will have one two three four five six points.
OK I'm going to cost savings and let's run this application I'm OK.
Basically these are the points and we would like to build that then the out out of these points as we
have discussed in the theoretical section.
So there are several options we can use the spiled linkage.
This linkage is going to take these data that basically these points on the two dimensional plane and
it's going to create the linkage matrix.
What is it mean single it is the nearest point algorithm according to this formula.
So it's going to find the closest pair of points on the two dimensional plane.
Let's take a look at it again.
So it's going to calculate that was the minimal distance whether it is between these points these points
or these points.
I guess that the distance between these two points are the same as the distance between these two points
and these two points.
But it's going to calculate the distance for us.
We can use for example the complete if we use complete it's going to calculate not the minimum but the
maximum out of the distances.
Of course we are looking for the minimum.
So I'm going to rewrite it to single Let's say that and basically let's print out this linkage matrix.
So print linkage matrix.
I'm going to get rid of these codes that say it and let's run it.
I'm going to close it.
OK let's clear the console and run it.
And basically this linkage matrix is going to track that to what point had been connected.
As you can see the algorithm assigns a given integer to every single point.
0 1 2 3 4 and 5.
OK we have 6 7 8 and 9 as you can see because if the algorithm merges two points together it's going
to assign the next integer possible.
So because we had 0 1 2 3 4 5 as you can see in the Stapp the algorithm merges the first point and the
second point.
So with index 0 and index won.
Why.
Because the distance was 0.5 between the two of them and this new cluster is going to have the integer
6.
Ok then the algorithm merges two and four.
So 0 1 to this point and this point and it's going to assign the integer 7 to this cluster that has
this point.
And at this point.
OK.
So basically this linkage matrix is going to track that was going to be the staps merging 0 and 1 then
merging 2 and 4 because the distance was 0.5 that merging 3 and 5 because the distance was 0.5 then
merging 7 and 8 and finally merging six and nine.
So basically this is the linkage matrix.
I'm going to get rid of this and we just have to build that thendo Graham with the linkage matrix and
the truncated mode.
What is this translated mode.
We can prune the tree like structure with the truncate mode.
If there's higher Haikal clustering tree like structure would be enormous.
In this case it's going to be so small that we don't want to prune it.
We don't want to truncate it.
So that's why the truncate moders equals to none.
So let's save it and I'm going to clear the console and let's run the application.
So these are the points.
And what's going to be the den program it's going to be the danto grammar's you can see the algorithm
first merge 0 and 1 then 2 and 4 then 3 and 5 then it's going to merge these two clusters.
And finally it's going to merge this cluster with this cluster.
Why is it good.
Because basically it's going to contain all the solutions that we can get with the help of k means clustering.
If we want to end up with two clusters we have to take these points and these points.
So 0 1 basically the first and the second point and all the other points are going to form the second
the cluster if we want to make three clusters then these points are going to be a single cluster.
These points are going to be a single cluster and these points are going to be a single cluster again
so we can decide how many clusters we want to create.
OK so this is how we create the linkage matrix.
It's going to store the information what points to merge and then the gram is going to build this tree
like structure and we can decide how many clusters do we want to end up with.
OK so that's all about a clustering dance or watching.